W-14153656-dynamic-evaluate-cv (#183)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/mule-components/4.4/component-dynamic-evaluate.adoc

//
//tag::component-title[]

= Dynamic Evaluate (<ee:dynamic-evaluate/>)

//end::component-title[]
//

//
//tag::component-short-description[]
//     Short description of the form "Do something..." 
//     Example: "Configure log messages anywhere in a flow."

Evaluates an expression to select a DataWeave script, and then executes the new script to generate a result.

//end::component-short-description[]
//

//
//tag::component-long-description[]
//TODO: Uncomment after Transform component doc is ready
//This behavior enables you to dynamically select the script, instead of hardcoding it into the xref:acb-component-transform.adoc[Transform Message component].

The script can use any of the usual xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[context variables], such as `message`, `payload`,`vars`, or `attributes`, but you can also add custom ones by providing a set of key-value pairs.

//end::component-long-description[]
//

//SECTION: COMPONENT XML
//
//tag::component-xml-title[]

[[component-xml]]
== Component XML

This component supports the following XML structure:

//end::component-xml-title[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml[]

[source,xml]

> ----
> <ee:dynamic-evaluate 
>   expression="" 
>   doc:name="Dynamic evaluate" 
>   doc:id="ojfqoz" />
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
----
<ee:dynamic-evaluate 
  expression="" 
  doc:name="Dynamic evaluate" 
  doc:id="ojfqoz">
  <ee:parameters>#[]</ee:parameters>
</ee:dynamic-evaluate> 
----
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="dynamic-evaluate-example-flow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_Configuration" path="/"/>
  <!-- This SQL query uses queryParams.userId to dynamically select a DataWeave script stored in a Database,
  and then assign this script to target variable userScript-->
  <db:select config-ref="dbConfig" target="userScript">
    <db:sql>#["SELECT script FROM SCRIPTS WHERE ID = $(attributes.queryParams.userId)"]</db:sql>
  </db:select>
  <!-- The dynamic evaluate component executes the script stored in vars.userScript-->
  <ee:dynamic-evaluate expression="#[vars.userScript]">
    <!-- This line sets a parameter called 'name', so the expression in the Dynamic Evaluate component can use it -->
    <ee:parameters>#[{name: attributes.queryParams.userName}]</ee:parameters>
  </ee:dynamic-evaluate>
</flow>
----

> Consider the following scripts stored in this example's database for the script examples `lsalander` and
> `mblomkvist`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that the scripts `lsalander` and`mblomkvist` are stored in this example's database:
```

//
//tag::component-title[]

= Dynamic Evaluate (<ee:dynamic-evaluate/>)

//end::component-title[]
//

//
//tag::component-short-description[]
//     Short description of the form "Do something..." 
//     Example: "Configure log messages anywhere in a flow."

Evaluates an expression to select a DataWeave script, and then executes the new script to generate a result.

//end::component-short-description[]
//

//
//tag::component-long-description[]
//TODO: Uncomment after Transform component doc is ready
//This behavior enables you to dynamically select the script, instead of hardcoding it into the xref:acb-component-transform.adoc[Transform Message component].

> The script can use any of the usual xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[context variables], such as `message`, `payload`,`vars`, or `attributes`, but you can also add custom ones by providing a set of key-value pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script can use any of the usual xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[predefined variables], such as `message`, `payload`,`vars`, or `attributes`, but you can also add custom ones by providing a set of key-value pairs.
```

//end::component-long-description[]
//

//SECTION: COMPONENT XML
//
//tag::component-xml-title[]

[[component-xml]]
== Component XML

This component supports the following XML structure:

//end::component-xml-title[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml[]

[source,xml]
----
<ee:dynamic-evaluate 
  expression="" 
  doc:name="Dynamic evaluate" 
  doc:id="ojfqoz">
  <ee:parameters>#[]</ee:parameters>
</ee:dynamic-evaluate> 
----

//end::component-xml[]
//
//tag::component-snippet-xml[]

[[snippet]]

=== Snippet XML

Snippet XML in Anypoint Code Builder serves as a customizable template for the component. 

[source,xml]
----
SNIPPET_XML_HERE
----

//end::component-snippet-xml[]
//
//
//
//
//TABLE: ROOT XML ATTRIBUTES (for the top-level (root) element)
//tag::component-xml-attributes-root[]

[%header,cols="1,3a"]
|===
| `<ee:dynamic-evaluate/>` Attributes 
| Description

| `doc:name` 
| Editable name for the component.

| `doc:id` 
| Automatically generated identifier for the component.

| `expression` 

> | Specifies an expression that selects a DataWeave script that Mule then executes. For example, `expression="#[vars.generateOrderScript]"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Expression that selects a DataWeave script that Mule executes. For example, `expression="#[vars.generateOrderScript]"`.
```

//
//
//TABLE (IF NEEDED): CHILD XML ATTRIBUTES for each child element
//  Repeat as needed, adding the next number to the tag value. 
//  Provide intro text, as needed.
//tag::component-xml-attributes-child1[]

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| <ee:parameters/> Attributes | Description

| None | Specify key-value pairs to set as parameters that the DataWeave script can evaluate. For example, `<ee:parameters>#[{name: attributes.queryParams.userName}]</ee:parameters>`.

|===
//end::component-xml-attributes-child1[]
//
//
//TABLE (IF NEEDED): GRANDCHILD XML ATTRIBUTES for each grandchild element
//  Repeat as needed, adding the next number to the tag value. 
//  Provide intro text, as needed.
//TAG
//tag::component-xml-descendant1[]
[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| <GRANDCHILD_ELEMENT/> Attributes | Description

| `attribute_here` | DESCRIPTION_HERE_WITH_DEFAULT_IF_AVAILABLE Defaults to `DEFAULT_HERE`.
| `attribute_here` | DESCRIPTION_HERE_WITH_DEFAULT_IF_AVAILABLE Defaults to `DEFAULT_HERE`.

|===
//end::component-xml-descendant1[]
//

//SECTION: EXAMPLES
//
//tag::component-examples-title[]

== Example
//end::component-examples-title[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml-ex1[]
[[example1]]

> The following example selects a script from a database through a `userId` query parameter and stores that script in a `userScript` variable. The `dynamic-evaluate` component accesses the `userScript` variable to invoke the script using the provided parameter `name`, which contains the value of `attributes.queryParams.userName`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example selects a script from a database through a `userId` query parameter and stores that script in a `userScript` variable. Dynamic Evaluate (`<ee:dynamic-evaluate/>`) accesses the `userScript` variable to invoke the script by using the provided parameter `name`, which contains the value of `attributes.queryParams.userName`.
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="dynamic-evaluate-example-flow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_Configuration" path="/"/>
  <!-- This SQL query uses queryParams.userId to dynamically select a DataWeave script stored in a Database,
  and then assign this script to target variable userScript-->
  <db:select config-ref="dbConfig" target="userScript">
    <db:sql>#["SELECT script FROM SCRIPTS WHERE ID = $(attributes.queryParams.userId)"]</db:sql>
  </db:select>
  <!-- The dynamic evaluate component executes the script stored in vars.userScript-->
  <ee:dynamic-evaluate expression="#[vars.userScript]">
    <!-- This line sets a parameter called 'name', so the expression in the Dynamic Evaluate component can use it -->
    <ee:parameters>#[{name: attributes.queryParams.userName}]</ee:parameters>
  </ee:dynamic-evaluate>
</flow>
----

> Consider the following scripts stored in this example's database for entries `lsalander` and
> `mblomkvist`, respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following scripts stored in this example's database for the script examples `lsalander` and
`mblomkvist`:
```

.Example: lsalander script
----
output application/json
---
{
  message: "Order " ++ attributes.queryParams.orderId ++ " has been received from " ++ name,
  items: payload.items
}
----

.Example: mblomkvist script
----
output application/x-www-form-urlencoded
---
{
  message: "Order " ++ attributes.queryParams.orderId ++ " has been received from " ++ name,
  items: payload.items
}
----

=== Example Application Behavior

> When this example Mule application receives `lsalander` as the `queryParams.userId` in the request, Mule executes the corresponding script, which results in a JSON response. If the application receives `mblomkvist` as the `queryParams.userId` value, Mule executes a different script that generates a `x-www-form-urlencoded` response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Mule application <<example1, example>> receives `lsalander` as the `queryParams.userId` in the request, Mule executes the `lsalander` script, which results in a JSON response. If the application receives `mblomkvist` as the `queryParams.userId` value, Mule executes a different script that generates a `x-www-form-urlencoded` response.
```

> This example demonstrates how the response type can be parameterized based on the user, but the entire response can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example demonstrates how the response type can be parameterized based on the user, but the entire response can
```

> This example demonstrates how the response type can be parameterized based on the user, but the entire response can
> be parameterized to suit each users needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example demonstrates how the response type can be parameterized based on the user, but the entire response can be parameterized to suit user needs.
```
